readme.md, before:

[![CI](https://github.com/a-nau/synthetic-dataset-generation/workflows/CI/badge.svg)](https://github.com/a-nau/synthetic-dataset-generation/actions)
[![basis](https://img.shields.io/badge/based%20on-debidatta/syndata--generation-brightgreen.svg)](https://github.com/debidatta/syndata-generation)
[![arxiv](http://img.shields.io/badge/paper-arxiv.2210.09814-B31B1B.svg)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2210.09814)
[![project page](https://img.shields.io/badge/website-project%20page-informational.svg)](https://a-nau.github.io/parcel2d)

# Synthetic Dataset Generation

> This repository is a modified (and extended) version
> of [debidatta/syndata-generation](https://github.com/debidatta/syndata-generation), which
> hopefully is more convenient to use. All credits to the original authors (also see [Citation](#citation)).
>
<p align="center">
    <img src="data/misc/overview_composition.png" alt="Overview">
    <br>
    <span style="font-size: small">
      <b>Figure:</b> 
      Minimal dataset example of 5 images where only assets from the <a href="data/readme.md">image pool</a> were used.
    </span>
    <br>
</p>

This repo helps you to very easily create your own instance segmentation dataset rapidly. What do you need?
The relevant resources, i.e. an image pool of

- background images (any sizes)
- objects of interest (in RGBA format)
- distractor objects (in RGBA format)
- splits for training, validation and test (of your resources) as described [here](data/readme.md)

The rest will be handled by this repository :) If you need help gathering data for the image pool, check
our [project page](https://a-nau.github.io/parcel2d/) with details on image scraping and asset selection.

This version was developed as part of a [paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2210.09814) ([citation](#citation)), also check
the [project page](https://a-nau.github.io/parcel2d/) for more details.

## Usage

There two places to make configurations:

[config.py](src/config.py) to adjust e.g. (all variables are explained in the comments)

- number of objects of interests
- number of distractors
- max IoU between objects
- which blending methods are used
- ... (see [config.py](src/config.py))

[generate_synthetic_data.py](src/tools/generate_synthetic_data.py) to set

- paths to the resources needed for dataset generation (also see [Data](data/readme.md))
- number of images that should be generated
- flags for enabling occlusion, rotation and scaling
- flag for multithreading for faster image generation (recommended)

### Locally

(Install the requirements) -> See `pip_semi_guide.md`, you might get it working witht the requirements, but I didn't figure it out.

```shell
cd pyblur
pip install -e .
cd ..
pip install -r requirements2.txt
```

And run

```shell
python src/tools/generate_synthetic_data.py
```

### Docker

Build using

```shell
source scripts/docker_build.sh           # for CPU
source scripts/GPU/docker_build.sh       # for GPU (faster Poisson Blending)
```

Run dataset generation using

```shell
source scripts/docker_run.sh             # for CPU
source scripts/GPU/docker_run.sh         # for GPU (faster Poisson Blending)
```

Please check the respective files, in order to make any changes.

## Citation

If you use this code for scientific research, please consider citing the following two works.

### Cut, Paste and Learn: Surprisingly Easy Synthesis for Instance Detection

The original work, including the [code](https://github.com/debidatta/syndata-generation) on which this repository is
built. Thanks a lot to the authors for providing their code!

```latex
@inproceedings{Dwibedi_2017_ICCV,
	title        = {Cut, Paste and Learn: Surprisingly Easy Synthesis for Instance Detection},
	author       = {Dwibedi, Debidatta and Misra, Ishan and Hebert, Martial},
	year         = 2017,
	month        = {Oct},
	booktitle    = {The IEEE International Conference on Computer Vision (ICCV)}
}
```

- Paper: [arxiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1708.01642)
  and [ICCV 2017](https://openaccess.thecvf.com/content_ICCV_2017/papers/Dwibedi_Cut_Paste_and_ICCV_2017_paper.pdf)

### Scrape, Cut, Paste and Learn: Automated Dataset Generation Applied to Parcel Logistics

Our work for which this repository was developed.

```latex
@inproceedings{naumannScrapeCutPasteLearn2022,
	title        = {Scrape, Cut, Paste and Learn: Automated Dataset Generation Applied to Parcel Logistics},
	author       = {Naumann, Alexander and Hertlein, Felix and Zhou, Benchun and Dörr, Laura and Furmans, Kai},
	booktitle    = {{{IEEE Conference}} on {{Machine Learning}} and Applications ({{ICMLA}})},
	date         = 2022
}
```

## Affiliations

<p align="center">
    <img src="https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/de/thumb/4/44/Fzi_logo.svg/1200px-Fzi_logo.svg.png?raw=true" alt="FZI Logo" height="200"/>
</p>

Commit message:

config file reorganization + updated readme + requirements

readme.md, after:

[![CI](https://github.com/a-nau/synthetic-dataset-generation/workflows/CI/badge.svg)](https://github.com/a-nau/synthetic-dataset-generation/actions)
[![basis](https://img.shields.io/badge/based%20on-debidatta/syndata--generation-brightgreen.svg)](https://github.com/debidatta/syndata-generation)
[![arxiv](http://img.shields.io/badge/paper-arxiv.2210.09814-B31B1B.svg)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2210.09814)
[![project page](https://img.shields.io/badge/website-project%20page-informational.svg)](https://a-nau.github.io/parcel2d)

# Synthetic Dataset Generation

<!---
> This repository is a modified (and extended) version
> of [debidatta/syndata-generation](https://github.com/debidatta/syndata-generation), which
> hopefully is more convenient to use. All credits to the original authors (also see [Citation](#citation)).
>
<p align="center">
    <img src="data/misc/overview_composition.png" alt="Overview">
    <br>
    <span style="font-size: small">
      <b>Figure:</b> 
      Minimal dataset example of 5 images where only assets from the <a href="data/readme.md">image pool</a> were used.
    </span>
    <br>
</p>
-->


> This repository is a modified (and extended) version
> of [a-nau/synthetic-dataset-generation](https://github.com/a-nau/synthetic-dataset-generation), which is adapted for the creation of synthetic data
> with small objects (more specifically flowers).
> Not all the original functionallity is kept as it was not needed for my usecase and also could not be tested on my available hardware.
> The major missing feature is being able to use a GPU to speed up Poisson blending via Docker. (Feel free to fork this repository again if this is needed for your usecase).
> This part of a bigger project to create synthetic data for flower detection on drone images using images downloaded from [GBIF](https://www.gbif.org/), a aggregator or citizen science images of flowers and animals with usefull metadata accessable via API. (see ... for more detail)


What was added and changed to this repository:
- More configurability of the poisson blending and a implementation that works on small objects using OpenCV
- Examples of config files with visual examples of the results
- Being able to configure the size range of objects per class. This way small flowers can get a smaller range then bigger flowers.


This repo helps you to very easily create your own instance segmentation dataset rapidly. What do you need?
The relevant resources, i.e. an image pool of

- background images (any sizes)
- objects of interest (in RGBA format)
- distractor objects (in RGBA format)
- splits for training, validation and test (of your resources) as described [here](data/readme.md)

The rest will be handled by this repository :) If you need help gathering data for the image pool, check
the [project page from a-nau](https://a-nau.github.io/parcel2d/) with details about general image scraping and asset selection using search engines like Google, Bing and ... . Check ... for gathering data from GBIF.

## Usage

There three places to make configurations:

[config.py](src/config.py) to adjust e.g. (all variables are explained in the comments)

- number of objects of interestsD
- number of distractors
- max IoU between objects
- which blending methods are used
- ... (see [config.py](src/config.py))

[generate_synthetic_data.py](src/tools/generate_synthetic_data.py) to set

- paths to the resources needed for dataset generation (also see [Data](data/readme.md))
- number of images that should be generated
- flags for enabling occlusion, rotation and scaling
- flag for multithreading for faster image generation (recommended)

### Locally

(Install the requirements) -> See `pip_semi_guide.md`, you might get it working witht the requirements, but I didn't figure it out.

```shell
cd pyblur
pip install -e .
cd ..
pip install -r requirements2.txt
```

And run

```shell
python src/tools/generate_synthetic_data.py
```

### Docker

Build using

```shell
source scripts/docker_build.sh           # for CPU
source scripts/GPU/docker_build.sh       # for GPU (faster Poisson Blending)
```

Run dataset generation using

```shell
source scripts/docker_run.sh             # for CPU
source scripts/GPU/docker_run.sh         # for GPU (faster Poisson Blending)
```

Please check the respective files, in order to make any changes.

## Citation

If you use this code for scientific research, please consider citing the following two works.

### Cut, Paste and Learn: Surprisingly Easy Synthesis for Instance Detection

The original work, including the [code](https://github.com/debidatta/syndata-generation) on which this repository is
built. Thanks a lot to the authors for providing their code!

```latex
@inproceedings{Dwibedi_2017_ICCV,
	title        = {Cut, Paste and Learn: Surprisingly Easy Synthesis for Instance Detection},
	author       = {Dwibedi, Debidatta and Misra, Ishan and Hebert, Martial},
	year         = 2017,
	month        = {Oct},
	booktitle    = {The IEEE International Conference on Computer Vision (ICCV)}
}
```

- Paper: [arxiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1708.01642)
  and [ICCV 2017](https://openaccess.thecvf.com/content_ICCV_2017/papers/Dwibedi_Cut_Paste_and_ICCV_2017_paper.pdf)

### Scrape, Cut, Paste and Learn: Automated Dataset Generation Applied to Parcel Logistics

Our work for which this repository was developed.

```latex
@inproceedings{naumannScrapeCutPasteLearn2022,
	title        = {Scrape, Cut, Paste and Learn: Automated Dataset Generation Applied to Parcel Logistics},
	author       = {Naumann, Alexander and Hertlein, Felix and Zhou, Benchun and Dörr, Laura and Furmans, Kai},
	booktitle    = {{{IEEE Conference}} on {{Machine Learning}} and Applications ({{ICMLA}})},
	date         = 2022
}
```

## Affiliations

<p align="center">
    <img src="https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/de/thumb/4/44/Fzi_logo.svg/1200px-Fzi_logo.svg.png?raw=true" alt="FZI Logo" height="200"/>
</p>
